Improvements for Mainnet Forking Docs (#1596)
onflow/docs: docs/blockchain-development-tutorials/cadence/emulator-fork-testing/index.md

:::tip

This tutorial uses `@onflow/react-sdk` for all React examples. The React SDK provides hooks and components that make Flow development feel native to React. For non-React applications, you can use `@onflow/fcl` directly.

:::

### Network access

You'll need network access to Flow's public access nodes:

- Mainnet: `access.mainnet.nodes.onflow.org:9000`
- Testnet: `access.devnet.nodes.onflow.org:9000`

:::info

This tutorial covers `flow emulator --fork` (interactive testing with a forked emulator), which is different from `flow test --fork` (running Cadence test files against forked state). For testing Cadence contracts with test files, see [Fork Testing with Cadence].

:::

## Understanding Emulator Fork Mode

### What is `flow emulator --fork`?

The emulator's fork mode starts a local Flow blockchain that connects to a real network (mainnet or testnet) and fetches state on-demand. Your dapp, scripts, and transactions run locally but can read from and interact with real network data.

**Key capabilities:**

- Full gRPC and REST API servers running locally
- On-demand fetching of accounts, contracts, and state from the live network

> - Disabled signature validation—execute transactions as any mainnet account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Disabled signature validation. You can impersonate any mainnet account to execute transactions
```

- **Bot and indexer testing**: Run automated tools against forked data

**Don't use this for:**

- Cadence unit/integration tests (use `flow test --fork` instead—see [Fork Testing with Cadence])

### Emulator Fork vs Test Framework Fork

| Feature         | `flow emulator --fork`                  | `flow test --fork`             |
| --------------- | --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| **Use for**     | Dapp E2E, manual testing, debugging     | Cadence unit/integration tests |
| **Connects to** | Frontend, wallets, bots, E2E tools      | Cadence Testing Framework      |
| **Run with**    | FCL, Cypress, Playwright, manual clicks | `flow test` command            |
| **Best for**    | User flows, UI testing, exploration     | Contract logic validation      |
| **Examples**    | React app, wallet flows, E2E suites     | `*_test.cdc` files             |

Both modes are valuable—use the right tool for the job.

## Quick Start: Run in 60 Seconds

Want to see it work immediately? Here's the fastest path:

```bash
# 1. Initialize a Flow project
flow init --yes

# 2. Configure fork network (add to flow.json)
# Add this under "networks":

> #   "mainnet-fork": {

Author: Yeah, this is a pending update - will have a release out shortly

#     "host": "127.0.0.1:3569",
#     "fork": "mainnet"
#   }

# 3. Install FlowToken dependency

> flow dependencies install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
flow dependencies install FlowToken FungibleToken
```

# Select FlowToken from the list

# 4. Start forked emulator (in a separate terminal)
flow emulator --fork mainnet

# 5. In another terminal, check the forked state
flow scripts execute cadence/scripts/get_flow_supply.cdc --network mainnet-fork
```

Create `cadence/scripts/get_flow_supply.cdc`:

```cadence
import "FlowToken"

access(all) fun main(): UFix64 {
    return FlowToken.totalSupply
}
```

You'll see the real mainnet FlowToken supply! Now let's build a complete example with a frontend.

## Create Your Project

Navigate to your development directory and create a new Flow project:

```bash
mkdir emulator-fork-demo
cd emulator-fork-demo
flow init --yes
```

The `--yes` flag accepts defaults non-interactively.

## Configure Fork Network in flow.json

Before starting the emulator, configure a fork network in your `flow.json`. This enables automatic contract alias inheritance from mainnet, so you don't need to manually duplicate aliases.

Open `flow.json` and add a `mainnet-fork` network:

```json
{
  "networks": {
    "emulator": "127.0.0.1:3569",
    "mainnet": "access.mainnet.nodes.onflow.org:9000",
    "testnet": "access.devnet.nodes.onflow.org:9000",

>     "mainnet-fork": {

Reviewer: This is automatic now right?
